# project1 Monthly Calendar
This Monthly Calendar project is a project that I completed in my CS231 course in college at Jacksonville State University. This code was written on March 8th, 2021.
# Class Description
CS231 is the Computer Programming 1 class offered at JSU. This class covers many things, such as: algorithmic problem solving, modular programming, strings, multi-dimensional arrays, records, dynamic linked lists, documentation, testing and debugging, and developing robust, user-friendly programs.
In this course, we learned the basics of real-world programming, including the fundamental ideas, principles, and techniques for building effective and practical programs. We also developed an understanding of the key concepts and techniques of data structures, algorithms, memory management, error handling, and data processing and manipulation. We also learned the ideals and principles of effectively expressing ideas in code.
In this class, we needed to complete weekly programming assignments that were due on a weekly basis. This class focused on learning how to use c++ while also teaching the beginning and basic steps of programming. Through the course of several months, we increased our ability to work with c++ and improved our programming ability. 
I took this class because it is a requirement for my Computer Systems major. I found an interest in computer programming in my first year of college and decided that this was the major that I wanted to focus on.
# Short Project Description
This program uses a function to print out an individual calendar month. It does not print a calendar based on a year. When the function is called, it will print out the calendar month with the specified parameters: the month, the start day of the week, and, if the month is February, whether it is a leap year. 
# Long Project Description
This program uses a function called printmonth that has three sets of parameters: the first is the month, the second is the start day of the week, and the third is if it is a leap year or not.
The first two parameters are numerical values that correspond to the number of months and the number of the day of the week. The third parameter is a boolean value, which means it is a true or a false value.
The body of the function starts by creating two arrays which are storage spaces where one stores the names of the months and the other stores the number of days that belong to its corresponding month. These arrays will be used to compare the data that is given as the parameters in the function with the corresponding month and number of days. The arrays will also be used to print the month and number of days in the calendar.
Then, the function proceeds to check if the month is February and if it is a leap year using an if-then-else conditional statement. If it is a leap year, it sets the number of days to 29, else the number of days is 28. It will only set 29 as the number of days if the boolean parameter is set to true and the month is February. 
Next is a for loop that builds the structure of the calendar by using multiple if statements and the parameter for the start day of the week. Since the structure of the calendar month depends on the start day of the week, this is a very important piece of our program. The if statements each contain nested if statements. This means that there are if statements inside other if statements. 
The outer if statements determine if the given parameter for start day of the week matches a specific number. For example, if the start day was zero, the calendar would have the first day be on Sunday. If the start day was one, the first day would be on Monday, and so on and so forth until 6 which would be Saturday. If the statement is true (if one number matches the other), then it would continue with the inner, or nested, if statements.
In the nested if statements, the days of the month are printed in calendrical form. Numbers that were less than ten had to be printed with extra white spaces in between due to them being smaller in size than numbers greater than ten. Also, if the start day was on any day other than Sunday, a certain number of spaces had to be printed in the first week to keep the structure of the calendar. The last if statement in the nested if statements determined if the last day of the week (Saturday) was reached and proceeded to start a new week in the month.
The last section of the program is the main method of the program that shows many examples of the program in use.
There are many comments throughout the program that give a brief and basic description of what is occurring in that section of the code.
